SAV Analysis Tab {#example_sav_analysis_example}
================================================

This section will introduce you to applications that allow you to mimic
SAV functionality from the command line.

You can download the demo dataset used in this example here: [MiSeqDemo.zip]

[MiSeqDemo.zip]: https://github.com/Illumina/interop/releases/download/v1.0.6/MiSeqDemo.zip

The following plot commands all take, as input, a run folder and write
a plot, in the GNUPlot script format, to the console (stdout). Anything
written to the console in this manner can be redirected to a file or
another program such as GNUPlot. In addition, you can copy this output
into Excel and plot it there.

Each plot command has an additional set of options that allow the user
to choose a specific metric to plot or how to filter the data. For
example, the user can choose to only plot data from lane 1 by specifiying
the option `--filter-by-lane=1`.  A full list of options for each program
can be obtained with the `--help` flag.

## SAV Analysis Tab

### Flowcell Heatmap

Starting on the left, the SAV Analysis page has a flowcell heat map. This
heatmap can show a metric, such as Intensity, for each tile in the
flowcell. The InterOp apps include a `plot_flowcell` command that can be
used to generate this heatmap as follows:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{.sh}
plot_flowcell  MiSeqDemo/ | gnuplot
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following is an example plot generated by the sample dataset listed
above using the default command. It shows the Intensity of channel A for 
each tile on a MiSeq flowcell.

![Flowcell Intensity Heatmap]

[Flowcell Intensity Heatmap]: images/MiSeqDemo_flowcell-intensity.png

Alternatively, the user can have the data printed to the console as
follows:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{.sh}
plot_flowcell  MiSeqDemo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Or, can redirect the plot data to a file just so:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{.sh}
plot_flowcell  MiSeqDemo > flowcell_plot.csv
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

### Plot By Cycle

The plot at the top center of the SAV Analysis tab displays how a single
metric changes from cycle to cycle.

The following command may be used to  generate the example plot shown 
below.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{.sh}
plot_by_cycle  MiSeqDemo/ | gnuplot
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here, the intensity of each average channel is plotted with respect to 
sequencing cycle.

![Intensity By Cycle]

[Intensity By Cycle]: MiSeqDemo_Intensity-by-cycle_Intensity.png

### Plot By Lane

The plot at the bottom center position of the SAV Analysis tab displays
an average over all tiles for each lane.

The following command may be used to  generate the example plot shown 
below.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{.sh}
plot_by_lane  MiSeqDemo/ | gnuplot
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here, the cluster count passed filter (PF) and the cluster count are 
plotted with respect to each lane in the flowcell.

![Cluster Count By Cycle]

[Cluster Count By Cycle]: MiSeqDemo_ClusterCount-by-lane.png

### Q-Score Histogram

The plot at the top left position of the SAV Analysis tab displays
a histogram of the Q-scores over all cycles of the run.

The following command may be used to  generate the example plot shown 
below.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{.sh}
plot_qscore_histogram  MiSeqDemo/ | gnuplot
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

![Q-score Histogram]

[Q-score Histogram]: MiSeqDemo_q-histogram.png

### Q-Score Heatmap

The plot at the bottom left position of the SAV Analysis tab displays
Q-score heatmap, which compares Q-score on the Y-axis to the cycle on
the X-axis.

The following command may be used to  generate the example plot shown 
below.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{.sh}
plot_qscore_heatmap  MiSeqDemo/ | gnuplot
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

![Q-score Heatmap]

[Q-score Heatmap]: MiSeqDemo_q-heat-map.png